Hi, I'm Alex, I'm 20 years old, and I passed my OSCP/OSCP+ with a 90/100 in 3 months. 



TIMELINE

September → October (Learned the material from CompTIA A+ and Security+. Learned linux fundamentals)

October → November (Basic Linux hacking starting with OverTheWire and TryHackMe)

November → January (Tried bug bounty and web hacking)

February → March (Started TryHackMe again)

March → April (Stopped TryHackMe and started HackTheBox)

April → May (Stopped HackTheBox and started PG Practice and PWK Course)



January 29th started TryHackMe again, April 29th Passed my OSCP/OSCP+ with 90/100 points



SEPTEMBER

My journey to the OSCP began in September 2025, when I decided to dedicate myself to studying Cybersecurity with the goal of becoming a penetration tester / ethical hacker. Since I was attending college at the time, I wasn’t able to allocate as much time studying Cybersecurity as I wanted; nonetheless, I continued pursuing both in parallel. I started by learning about the industry as a whole, and I decided to learn how security really works. I wanted to study the Comptia A+ and Security+ material so I could have a grasp of what was actually happening. I studied this material through the lectures offered by the Proffessor Messer youtube channel. Once I believe I had a good understanding of how things actually worked I started learning the fundamentals of linux through the website : https://labex.io/linuxjourney. This website taught me how to use the terminal and what happens in under the hood in Linux systems. Once I had gone through all the modules, I started learning from the website “OverTheWire”.



OCTOBER

All throughout October, I spent my time going to college, taking care of my dog, and learning all that I could from this website, but more specifically learning from the Bandit labs, which offered an introductory course to linux hacking. Once I finished the Bandit labs, I tried my hand at the other labs, but they didn't seem to be as valuable as Bandit so I signed up for TryHackMe instead. Once I started researching TryHackMe, I came across John Hammond who I emulated as best I could while also learning basic penetration testing techniques like nmap scans, basic web testing, and Linux privilege escalation. 



NOVEMBER, DECEMBER, JANUARY

During November and early December, I dropped everything for college due to it being the end of the semester. Once my semester had ended around mid-December, I began trying my hand at web hacking and bug bounty for the remaining time I had until the end of winter break. I spent time learning web hacking from Portswigger and spent time browsing sites like Hackerone and Bugcrowd. Once I eventually decided to start bug bounty, I was quickly met with the realization that this was going to be much harder than I had anticipated. I tried everything I knew and was met with nothing but error messages and 0 results. I felt demotivated at this time as it derailed my plans entirely. I found myself feeling like my time was wasted and my efforts were fruitless. I knew that web hacking wasn't my end goal, and I reminded myself that landing a job as a penetration tester was my true goal. I decided it would be better for my career if I dropped out of my 4th semester of college and devoted all my efforts to getting my OSCP, taking care of my dog, and getting a role as a penetration tester. It was a difficult decision, but at the end of the day I did not want to spend 4 months working towards an engineering degree that didn’t help me with my end goal, Cybersecurity. Starting January 29th with a mindset shift, I immediately started on TryHackMe; I knew what I had to do.



FEBRUARY

TryHackMe → HackTheBox → ProvingGrounds Practice and PWK challenge labs. I had everything laid out; all I needed to do was execute this plan. I began doing easy rated boxes on TryHackMe, which I couldn't do without guides, as the only techniques I remembered were directory brute-forcing and Nmap scans. I kept at it, and by the end of February I was able to root medium rated boxes without help. I shifted from trying the most popular boxes on the website to focusing on Lain Kusanagi’s OSCP preparation list of boxes. 



MARCH

March 2nd was when I began HackTheBox and it was the same date I realized how truly difficult this endeavour was going to be. The first machine I tried, “Cap”, was easy enough and gave me a false sense of confidence. Everything else from Lain Kusanagi’s list completely threw me for a loop. I tried Easy-rated boxes that took me hours to solve even with a guide. I knew this feeling, and I knew that I could learn how to solve these boxes, but I just needed to work at it. Eventually, boxes started to click, I started seeing the patterns, and most importantly, I was developing the methodology that allowed me to pass the OSCP exam. I wasn't able to finish all the boxes from Lain’s list before my subscription ran out, but I moved onto PG Practice anyways. I started PG Practice on April 6th with the expectation of passing before the month was over. 



APRIL

I expected a similar learning curve to the one I experienced with HackTheBox, but the first box on Lain’s list that I tried, I rooted in 14 minutes. I was practically already celebrating because I knew I needed to refine my methodology instead of learning entirely new concepts. I continued on this path, and 9 days after I started PG Practice, on April 15th I decided to buy the PWK course and challenge labs. I got through all of the Windows, Active Directory, and some Linux machines from Lain Kusanagi’s list before starting the challenge labs. Upon starting the challenge labs and specifically the OSCP A, I saw internal ip addresses and realized I hadnt prepared how to navigate connected networks. I tried using Chisel since I knew how to use it already but it ended up being unbelievably slow. I spent the next day learning Ligolo-ng and quickly was able to solve the OSCP A without much trouble. If I hadn't learned how to pivot with Ligolo, I might have completely failed my first OSCP attempt. I spent the rest of my time being extra careful and learning every single lesson I could from the challenge labs. I scheduled my exam for the 26th, and right before my exam on April 23rd, my dog had gotten really sick, which took away 2 days of my study time, 2 days that I could not afford to lose. I rescheduled my exam for the 29th so I could be well rested and ready to tackle the OSCP. I started on the 29th and stayed awake for 24 hours to make sure every aspect of my report was perfect. I submitted my report on the 1st of May at 3am because I had to take care of my dog who was still recovering, I took care of until my brother could take over at around 4pm on April 30th. On May 2nd I recieved the email that I had passed the OSCP exam. 



I believe what really helped me the most was actually trying to understand what was going on rather than looking at solutions. I do believe Lain Kusanagi’s list overprepared me for the exam, but I came out a much better penetration tester. From here, I will be sharpening my web skills and learning everything from Portswigger Web Security Academy, I will try to do free penetration tests for non profit companies, and I will apply to penetration testing roles. Hopefully, I will be able to achieve my dream of becoming a penetration tester, I know there is still work to do, but I will do it with the goal of learning. 
